README.md, before:

# Spring Forum 

This project is a simple forum application built with Spring Boot. It allows users to create posts, comment on posts, and vote on posts.

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Features](#features)
- [ERD Diagram](#erd-diagram)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Getting Started

### Running with Docker

The easiest way to run the application is with Docker.

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

The application will be available at [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080).

### Running with Gradle

Alternatively, you can run the application with Gradle.

```bash
./gradlew bootRun
```

## Features

The application includes the following functionalities:

- User registration and login
- Post creation, editing, and deletion
- Comment creation, editing, and deletion
- Voting on posts

## ERD Diagram

The following Entity-Relationship Diagram (ERD) shows the relationships between the entities in the application:

```mermaid
classDiagram
    class User {
        uuid id
        string name
        string email
        string password
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
    }
    
    class Post {
        uuid id
        uuid user_id
        string title
        string content
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
    }
    
    class Comment {
        uuid id
        uuid post_id
        uuid user_id
        string content
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
    }
    
    class Vote {
        uuid id
        uuid user_id
        uuid post_id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
    }

    User "1" *-- "N" Post : creates
    Post "1" *-- "N" Comment : contains
    User "1" *-- "N" Comment : writes
    User "1" *-- "N" Vote : casts
    Post "1" *-- "N" Vote : receives
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please fork the repository and submit a pull request with your changes.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

docs: update README
added prerequisites for running with Gradle

README.md, after:

# Spring Forum 

This project is a simple forum application built with Spring Boot. It allows users to create posts, comment on posts, and vote on posts.

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Features](#features)
- [ERD Diagram](#erd-diagram)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Getting Started

### Running with Docker

The easiest way to run the application is with Docker.

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

> The application will be available at [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080).

### Running with Gradle

Alternatively, you can run the application with Gradle. 

#### Prerequisites

- Java 22 or later (it's compatible with Java 17, but you may need to update the `sourceCompatibility` and `targetCompatibility` in the `build.gradle` file)
- Gradle 8.0 or later

```bash
./gradlew bootRun
```

> The application will be available at [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080).

## Features

The application includes the following functionalities:

- User registration and login
- Post creation, editing, and deletion
- Comment creation, editing, and deletion
- Voting on posts

## ERD Diagram

The following Entity-Relationship Diagram (ERD) shows the relationships between the entities in the application:

```mermaid
classDiagram
    class User {
        uuid id
        string name
        string email
        string password
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
    }
    
    class Post {
        uuid id
        uuid user_id
        string title
        string content
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
    }
    
    class Comment {
        uuid id
        uuid post_id
        uuid user_id
        string content
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
    }
    
    class Vote {
        uuid id
        uuid user_id
        uuid post_id
        datetime created_at
        datetime updated_at
    }

    User "1" *-- "N" Post : creates
    Post "1" *-- "N" Comment : contains
    User "1" *-- "N" Comment : writes
    User "1" *-- "N" Vote : casts
    Post "1" *-- "N" Vote : receives
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please fork the repository and submit a pull request with your changes.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.
